In this lecture, we are going to fix an issue with our team member bloc.
This issue may not be apparent from the beginning until it becomes too late.
Let me show you what I mean in the browser.
I'm viewing the experimental page for this demonstration.
I'm going to slow down my internet connection.
The developer tools have an option for throttling, an Internet connection for testing purposes, and
the developer tools switch over to the network panel.
Next, there's an option at the top for throttling the connection.
By default, throttling is turned off.
Let's set the throttling option to the slowest speed available.
After doing so, I'm going to add the team members group block.
Lastly, I'm going to upload an image.
The image is going to take a long time to upload while the image is uploading.
Let's open the list view sidebar.
I'm going to copy the team member block while the upload is occurring.
Just because our upload is processing doesn't mean our attributes have not changed.
Let's check out the attribute values.
For your convenience.
I provided a simplified copy of The BLOCK.
I've stripped most of the elements and data.
I want to focus on the image URL attribute.
Notice anything special about this attribute?
It's storing the blob URL.
That's not a good thing.
Here's the thing about blobs.
The URLs are pointing to a file in the user's memory.
This URL will not work on other browsers.
In addition, blobs are temporary.
If the same user who uploaded the file were to view this URL after opening and closing their browser,
they would not be able to view the image.
Our block should never store the blob irl.
It should wait for the image to finish uploading.
There are different ways to solve this issue.
I think the easiest way is to use state.
We can store the URL in the component state.
By doing so we can store the URL without saving it with the attributes.
After the upload is finished, we can store the URL in the attributes.
Let's tackle the solution together in your editor.
Open the index JS file for the team member block.
At the top of the file.
Import the use state function from the WordPress slash element package.
Relax.
Functions are available from this package.
We do not need to import these functions from the official React package.
Next, let's scroll to the edit function inside this function called the use state function with the
image URI attributes.
The initial value of our state should be the image URL.
After creating the state, let's store the value and function in a variable called Image Preview and
set Image Preview respectively.
The last step is to update our template to use the state over the attribute.
First, we are going to modify the condition for rendering the image change the condition from the image
URL attribute to the image preview state.
Do the same for the source attribute.
Next apply the same changes to the argument for the IS blog URL function.
Finally in the media placeholder component update the value for the disabled media buttons property
to the image preview state.
We're almost finished.
The on select event will be updated to the function.
Should update the state during an upload.
First, let's move the set attribute function to the else block.
The attributes will only be updated after the upload is complete.
If the URL is not a blob, we can safely update the attributes after the else.
BLOCK Let's call the set image preview function with the new image URL variable.
By making these changes, we are not updating the attributes until a valid URL has been created.
However, we still need to be able to preview the image for this case.
We are storing the URL in the component state.
Let's test our log in the browser.
Refresh the page and add the team members group block.
If you have throttling on, you may want to turn it off until the page has loaded.
After the page has loaded, try uploading a new file.
Next.
Try copying the block to your clipboard.
I created a copy of The BLOCK.
Unlike last time, the blog URL is not stored in the blocks attributes.
However, we're still able to preview the image.
That's exactly what we wanted.
If the user saves the block before the upload is complete, we won't have to worry about storing a block
of URL.
You should always be cautious with the types of values stored in your blocks.
Attributes.
Long URLs are not functional after the page has refreshed.